Jehovah designed marriage
as a beautiful and rewarding relationship
between a husband and a wife.
When a husband and wife
fulfill their God-given roles
and they treat each other
with love and respect,
their marriage is a wonderful
and intimate friendship.
A marriage that has good patterns
shaped by Jehovah’s principles
looks like this well-balanced family circle.
But if a married couple over time
has set bad patterns
in how they deal with each other,
this is often the result.
Life is going to be a bit rough for them.
Let’s consider what Jehovah says
about the roles of husband and wife
and then discuss how love and respect
are real keys to a happy marriage.
So, what roles did Jehovah give
to the man and woman in marriage?
Well, Jehovah places the husband
as head of the family.
Ephesians 5:23 says:
“A husband is head of his wife.”
So that means that the husband
makes final decisions for the family.
And his decisions
will reflect his love for his wife,
his children,
and his understanding of their spiritual,
physical, and emotional needs.
At 1 Corinthians 11:3,
we get a sense, though, of how Jehovah feels
about the husband’s role.
And as we read this together,
I want you to imagine
Jehovah saying to husbands:
‘Yes, you’re head of the family.’
“But I want you to know that the head
“of every man is the Christ;
in turn, the head of a woman is the man.”
Sounds a lot like a father-in-law
speaking to the groom:
“You can marry my daughter,
but you’d better treat her good
because you’re responsible to me.”
Well, Jehovah is giving
a very clear message for husbands.
Jehovah will hold you accountable to him
for how you treat your wife.
It’s something for us husbands
to think about, isn’t it?
Well, what about the role of a wife?
Jehovah assigned wives
as a beloved partner to her husband.
And as partners,
they can discuss important family matters
and work together
to make their marriage a success.
Jehovah placed the woman
under the headship of the man,
and as such,
her role is to be in subjection to him.
At Ephesians 5:22,
it says: “Let wives be in subjection
to their husbands as to the Lord.”
Subjection
—said a certain way, it almost sounds bad:
“You have to be in subjection!”
But is the subjection of a Christian wife
to a Christian husband a bad thing?
No.
See, subjection as described in the Bible
is not about being subservient;
it’s about her role in the marriage.
You’re partners,
each with a beautiful role to fulfill.
We could illustrate it
with watching a couple ice skating.
As they move gracefully across the ice,
do you think to yourself,
‘How come they never
let her hold him over her head?’
Well, no.
You look at him; you look at her.
It’s obvious
who should hold who over their head.
Well, just as we admire and respect
a woman’s role as an ice skating partner,
a husband deeply loves and appreciates
his wife’s role as his partner
as they work gracefully together
to make their marriage a success.
Well, now that we’ve briefly reviewed
the roles for husbands and wives,
let’s read together
a key Scriptural principle
at Ephesians 5:33
that shows how Jehovah
wants husbands and wives
to fulfill their roles in marriage.
Ephesians 5:33:
“Each one of you must love his wife
as he does himself;
on the other hand, the wife should have
deep respect for her husband.”
Well, the obvious message in this scripture
is that husbands should love their wives
and wives should respect their husbands.
However, there’s another way
to look at this scripture
and learn something about husbands and wives.
Jehovah God is telling us
what each mate needs.
Men need respect, and women need love.
Now, this is not to say
that men don’t need love
and women don’t need to be respected.
However, it does mean that men
tend to emphasize respect and status
and women often emphasize
intimacy, connection, and love.
This perfect principle
can help us to understand
why our husband or wife
may act or feel a certain way.
Now, this difference in emphasis
affects many areas of married life.
Let’s consider three examples
of how this powerful Scriptural principle
of love and respect
can give us insight
into how a husband and wife
talk to each other,
how they solve problems,
and how they act in the company of others.
Let’s consider our first example:
how they talk to each other.
Now, since a wife’s emphasis
is on being loved,
her conversations often stress friendship
and connection when she talks to her husband.
She’s eager to share
the details of her life with him
and in this way become closer to him.
She wants him, in turn, to share with her
the details of his day and life.
Husbands, your wife
feels loved when you learn
to communicate with her
in a way that tells her
you truly care about her.
She places great emphasis
on conversation and sharing her life with you
and likewise you sharing your life with her.
For example, a wife
tells her husband about something
that happened to her that day.
He grows impatient
with the story and interrupts
or changes the subject
or offers a quick solution.
How does she feel?
‘Why can’t he listen to the whole story?
Has he lost interest in me?’
It’s important that husbands give their wives
their full attention as they speak.
After a long day at work,
his mind may be focused on events
that happened to him that day.
And he may without realizing it
feel that the events
or conversation of his wife
aren’t on important subjects.
So he may be inclined
to play down the events in her life
as unimportant, or trivial,
while events he talks
about are substantial and important
because they happened to him.
Well, such a feeling over time
can truly discourage a wife.
A husband’s disinterest in her stories
and events of her life
feels a lot like disinterest in her.
The advice of Proverbs 20:5
is good for husbands.
It says: “The thoughts of a man’s
[or we could say in this case, woman’s] heart
“are like deep waters,
but the discerning man draws them out.”
That’s great advice for husbands.
Husbands, when you draw
your wife out,
let her speak from her heart.
That’s an indication of great love
and affection for your dear wife.
Men, on the other hand,
often view conversation differently.
A husband comes home,
and his wife asks, “How was your day?”
He says: “It was OK.
Nothing special.”
But later that night
when they’re with a group of friends,
he tells a story about what happened at work.
And she wonders,
‘Well, why didn’t he tell me that
when I asked about his day?’
Well, since a man’s emphasis is on respect,
they often use conversation
to establish respect and status with others.
A husband may feel
that his wife already respects him,
so there’s no need to tell her the story.
Wives, you can encourage your husband
to share his life with you
by being interested
in his work and activities.
If you tell him, “Don’t talk to me
about all that work stuff with me,” he won’t
and you’ll cut yourself off
from a part of his life.
Show him that you’re proud
of what he does to support the family.
Be interested in what happened to him,
how he feels about things,
or challenges that he overcame.
While you may not find
his work all that interesting,
remember, it is important to him.
Let’s consider our second example:
how they solve problems.
Now I want you to imagine a husband and wife.
They’re in a car,
they’re looking for an address,
and they’re lost.
And the wife suggests
that they ask someone for directions.
She’s thinking, ‘Why won’t he ask?’
He’s thinking,
‘Why can’t she just let me find it?’
You see,
since the man’s emphasis is on respect,
he’s trying to avoid
looking lost to a stranger.
The act of asking someone else for directions
may make him feel
like he’s in a lower position.
Finding their way is a challenge to him,
and he wants to show his wife
that he can find it on his own.
For the woman,
such an idea may not come to mind.
She may view it as a simple interchange
between them and a stranger.
They get help and directions,
and they find out where they’re going.
At 1 Corinthians 7:33,
Jehovah tells us:
“But the married man is anxious . . . ,
how he may gain the approval of his wife.”
Wives, your husband is anxious
to have your approval and respect.
But on balance, husbands have to be careful
that an emphasis on respect
doesn’t become unreasonable.
It won’t hurt us
to ask for directions or help at times.
On the other hand, a wife needs to be careful
that she doesn’t show impatience
by her words or tone
as her husband
works his way through a problem.
A wife who clearly understands
her husband’s desire
to solve problems for the family
will understand his actions
and will do her part to support him,
even in the little things around the home.
Now, this support in the little areas of life
builds his confidence in her support
and can be a major factor
in whether a husband
takes the lead in larger matters.
Our third and final example:
how they act in front of others.
Have you ever seen a couple
where one of them is telling a story
and the other
is constantly correcting the details?
or the husband
is trying to give some direction
and the wife corrects
or challenges the direction?
or the husband is telling others
some unflattering story
that hurts his wife’s feelings?
How can Ephesians 5:33
help a wife in these situations?
Well, since a husband’s emphasis
is on respect,
he’ll be much more sensitive
to comments his wife may make
in front of others.
It can hurt a husband deeply
when his wife openly challenges him
in front of others.
Proverbs 31:12
has this advice for wives:
“She rewards him with good, not bad,
all the days of her life.”
So when in public or when others are around
—even close family and children—
try not to openly disagree
with him, correct him,
or attempt to take over what he’s doing.
How you speak to your husband
in front of others
is a great way
to show your deep respect for him.
It also builds respect for him in others,
including any children in the family.
Well, how can Ephesians 5:33
help a husband act in front of others?
Well, when in public,
husbands will want to act
like the husband at Proverbs 31:28.
It says: “Her husband
rises up and praises her.”
It’s common today for husbands to make fun of
or even say demeaning things
about their wives.
But since a wife places so much emphasis
on connection and friendship,
she can really be hurt
when demeaning remarks are said
to get a laugh; it makes her feel awful.
Husbands, your wife
considers you her best friend,
the one she shares everything with.
If you break that trust,
she feels unloved and hurt.
Now, the best time
to bring matters to each other’s attention
is when you’re in private or, if needed,
when you can talk in such a way
that others cannot hear what’s being said.
In this way, a wife
shows deep respect for her husband
and the husband shows his love for his wife.
So in review,
we’ve considered just three situations
that the principle of love and respect
can help us to have a successful marriage:
how a husband and wife talk to each other,
how they solve problems,
and how they act in the company of others.
A good marriage is hard work.
How is your marriage?
Would you say
that you’ve developed good patterns
or bad patterns in dealing with each other?
When was the last time you talked as a couple
about love and respect for each other?
Jehovah’s perfect advice at Ephesians 5:33
can help the marriage
of two imperfect people.
In just a few words in this verse,
Jehovah is sharing with us a key principle
of how he designed marriage.
He’s telling us
what each needs and places emphasis on.
Husbands put emphasis on being respected,
and wives put emphasis on being loved.
And this principle forms a key part
of the divine pattern for marriage.
If you want your marriage
to operate as Jehovah designed,
then work hard to apply his perfect principle
of love and respect in your marriage.